# Comp-Graphic-and-Visualization

  When it comes to designing software, I believe the best route is simplicity. Code designed with detailed, easy to comprehend inline comments while keeping it at its simplest form to achieve the desired task is imperative for making code portable, usable, and fixable. This was my first time working with OpenGL and rendering 3D scenes. I learned how to track mouse movements and keyboard inputs, then map them to the project for control of the scene. I gained a better understanding manipulating cameras, lights, and objects sizes to get the desired results needed to match the original scene. 

  The design process was first to add the shapes and maneuver them to the general desired area within the scene. Then keyboard and mouse movements were added to get a better look at the objects and ensure they were in their correct positions and sizes. After, basic colors were added to objects that weren’t using a texture wrap. Texture wraps were then applied to the more complicated objects. Shader materials were then added to give objects a shinier appearance such as a “glass” appearance. Lights were then added to the scene to help bring out those shader materials and create reflections from the objects. This project relied heavily on iteration of shape meshes. The basic build of each shape was instilled within the starter code, I had to reuse the shape meshes multiple times to get all the objects needed for this design. For example, the pyramid in this scene is three pyramids of different colors blended to get the desired effect of multiple-colored faces.

  A lot of this code was designed to be portable, so in creating future projects it could be transferred over and reused with small changes for the desired result. When performing any future projects, it’ll be best to have a clear vision of the result and to break it up into smaller easy to handle portions to keep the design organized and attainable. This approach was taken while building this project throughout the weeks and it organization of the steps helped prevent the project from becoming overwhelming. Making sure all components worked accordingly before advancing to the next task was key to the success of the project.

  Having knowledge of OpenGL and 3D rendering is a huge advantage in today’s world where 3D and Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality, and Mixed Reality are becoming a major part of everyone’s daily life is an amazing skillset with a demand to match it. Immersive technology is one of the fastest growing and fascinating technologies present today. A lot of companies are invested in using this technology to improve their products and appeal to end users. Meta has produced a mixed-reality headset where you can see your surroundings and integrate graphics within them making them more believable. Google is using 3D imaging with Project Starline, to improve remote meetings and replicate the feeling of an in-person meeting. Niantic is creating a cool augmented reality map of the world where the developer hides digital prizes near monumental structures. These are just an extremely small example of what companies are using 3D rendering for, so you can see the potential and need for this skillset are limitless.
